<h1>Distributed System</h1>
<p>This work is to learn/understand the working of distributed node System and its various functionalities</p>
<p>This is multithreaded project implemented in java</p>

<h2>Features</h2>
<ul>
<li>Configurations can be loaded through a common configuration file</li>
<li>Nodes can automatic join to the cluster when they are up or when they are up after some down time.</li>
<li>Heart beat mechanism for checking aliveness of the connected node.</li>
<li>Bully election for electing the master node.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Build</h2>
<ul>gradle build or gradlew build</ul>

<h2>Run</h2>
<ol><li>unzip the Node.zip from Node/build/distributions/Node.zip</li>
<li>place the Node/Configurations/Config.json in the folder of Node/bin (this node folder is generated by unzipping the Node.zip</li>
<li>make changes in Config.json if needed</li>
<li>execute the binary as "./Node x" where x is the node number of this node in the cluster</li>
</ol>

<h2>Configurations</h2>
<p>configuration file is present at Configurations/Config.json
<br>This is a single configuration file for all the nodes in the cluster.
</p>
<p>it is a JSON file with format as :-</p>
<p>{<br>"x1" : { "PORT" : port,"Connection" : [y1,y2,...]}<br>
"x2" : {...}<br>
}<br>
where x1,x2...xn are the node no.<br>port represent the port number for running of this node.
<br>Connection is the json array containing the list of nodes to be connected with xi (x1 or x2 ... or xn).
<br> yj (y1 or y2..) is "node_np port_for_this_node"
<br>For better understanding see the Configurations/Config.json
</p>

<h2>File Structure</h2>
<p>More files can be added in order to enhance the existing working or to add other functionality as well.</p>
<h3>Communication Package</h3>
<p>This package maintains the communication related files.</p>
<ul>
<li>Connection.java :- stores the information regrading the connection between Nodes in the cluster</li>
<li>Message.java :- it is message structure</li>
<li>Receiver.java :- it is responsible for the accepting the incoming joining request and listening for the incoming messages</li>
<li>Sender.java :- it responsible for sending the connection request and sending the messages to the connected nodes.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Election Package</h3>
<p>Election is done to choose the master node from the clusters of the nodes.Currently only bull election is implemented.</p>
<ul>
<li>BullyElection.java :- implements the bully election algorithm.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Heart Package</h3>
<p>Here some kind of heart beat mechanism is implemented in order to check if the connected nodes are alive or dead.</p>
<ul>
<li>Hear.java :- it implements the simple heart beat mechanism.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Work Package</h3>
<p>The working mechanism is implemented here, currently only no extra working is implemented other than the system working. </p>
<ul>
<li>Worker.java :- This file define the worker or work along with how to perform.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Node Package</h3>
<p>This is the main node package , combine all other package</p>
<ul>
<li>Node.java :- main node file</li>
</ul>

<h2>License</h2>
<p>The project is distributed under the MIT license</p>




